Stateful Storage Pallet Documentation Improvement (#1989)
frequency-chain/frequency: pallets/stateful-storage/README.md

# Stateful Storage Pallet

The Stateful Storage pallet provides per-MSA functionality for reading and writing stateful data (where the relevant piece is solely the latest state).

## Summary

When a Schema uses `Paginated` or `Itemized`, the payload data is stored in this pallet.

> Data stored is user-centric instead of time-centric like the Messages Pallet.

Reviewer: Replace "like" with "as with"?  Unclear.

> The pallet storage use [child storage](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/storage/child/index.html), so RPC access to data is suggested over queries.

Reviewer: Should read "The pallet storage uses..."

Reviewer: Also "so" in this statement is unclear.

Author: Revised.

### Paginated Data (`PayloadLocation:Paginated`)

Data is stored in multiple pages of `1_024` bytes in size, each containing a single item of the associated schema.
Page count is limited to 33 per Schema Id (though there may be holes in that range).
This is most useful for schemas with a larger per-item size and smaller potential item count.

### Itemized Data (`PayloadLocation:Itemized`)

Data is stored in a single page (max size: `10_240` bytes) containing multiple items (max item size of `1_024` bytes) of the associated schema.
This is most useful for schemas with a relatively small item size and higher potential item count.
The read and write complexity is O(n) when n is the number of bytes for all items.

### Actions

The Stateful Storage pallet provides for:

- Per MSA and Schema storage of stateful data

> - Read/write access storage cost is limited to a single MSA Id and Schema Id pair

Reviewer: remove "is" in this bullet point.

| `upsert_page`<br />Sets the data for a specific page index | Provider or MSA Owner | Capacity or Tokens  | [`PaginatedPageUpdated`](https://frequency-chain.github.io/frequency/{pallet_name}/pallet/enum.Event.html#variant.PaginatedPageUpdated) | 22             |
| `delete_page`<br />Deletes a specific page index | Provider or MSA Owner | Capacity or Tokens  | [`PaginatedPageDeleted`](https://frequency-chain.github.io/frequency/{pallet_name}/pallet/enum.Event.html#variant.PaginatedPageDeleted)| 22             |
| `upsert_page_with_signature_v2`<br />Sets the data for a specific page index with a signature authorization | Provider or MSA Owner | Capacity or Tokens  | [`PaginatedPageUpdated`](https://frequency-chain.github.io/frequency/{pallet_name}/pallet/enum.Event.html#variant.PaginatedPageUpdated) | 46             |

> | `delete_page_with_signature_v2`<br />Deletes of a specific page index with a signature authorization | Provider or MSA Owner | Capacity or Tokens  | [`PaginatedPageDeleted`](https://frequency-chain.github.io/frequency/{pallet_name}/pallet/enum.Event.html#variant.PaginatedPageDeleted)| 46             |

Reviewer: I think "of" should be removed from this sentence.

# Stateful Storage Pallet

> The Stateful Storage pallet provides per-MSA functionality for reading and writing stateful data (where only the latest state is relevant).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Stateful Storage Pallet provides per-MSA functionality for reading and writing stateful data where only the latest state is relevant.
```

> The Stateful Storage pallet provides per-MSA functionality for reading and writing stateful data (where the relevant piece is solely the latest state).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Stateful Storage pallet provides per-MSA functionality for reading and writing stateful data (where only the latest state is relevant).
```

## Summary

When a Schema uses `Paginated` or `Itemized`, the payload data is stored in this pallet.

> Data stored is user-centric instead of time-centric as with the Messages Pallet.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to the messages pallet?

Author: Not yet. As this is part of the documentation that will be pulled into docs.frequency.xyz. It is in the list to figure out however: https://github.com/frequency-chain/docs/issues/59

The pallet storage uses [child storage](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/storage/child/index.html) making direct query access complex.
Custom RPCs are provided for easy access to data.

### Paginated Data (`PayloadLocation:Paginated`)

> Data is stored in multiple pages of `1_024` bytes in size, each containing a single item of the associated schema.

Reviewer 3: Should we reference the pallet constant here in addition to the value `1_024`?

Author: If this were only for the Rust docs, I might, but I hesitate with wanting to pull them into the docs.frequency.xyz

Thoughts?

Reviewer 3: We reference an enum above, `PayloadLocation:Paginated`. Might be nice to at least include the name of the constant, makes searching easier for doc updates if/when the constant value changes.

Author: @JoeCap08055 updated, see what you think.

> Data is stored in multiple pages of `1_024` bytes in size (linit defined by `constants::MaxPaginatedPageSizeBytes`), each containing a single item of the associated schema.

Reviewer 4: ~~linit~~ limit

> Data is stored in multiple pages of `1_024` bytes in size (linit defined by `constants::MaxPaginatedPageSizeBytes`), each containing a single item of the associated schema.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Data is stored in multiple pages of `1_024` bytes in size (limit defined by `constants::MaxPaginatedPageSizeBytes`), each containing a single item of the associated schema.
```

> Data is stored in multiple pages of `1_024` bytes in size (limit defined by `constants::MaxPaginatedPageSizeBytes`), each containing a single item of the associated schema.

Reviewer 4: This might be a little easier to read:
Data is stored in multiple pages, each 1,024 bytes in size (as defined by constants::MaxPaginatedPageSizeBytes). Each page contains a single item of the associated schema.

Author: I like it.
```suggestion
Data is stored in multiple pages, each `1_024` bytes in size (as defined by `constants::MaxPaginatedPageSizeBytes`).
Each page contains a single item of the associated schema.
```

> Page count is limited to 33 per Schema Id (though there may be holes in that range).

Reviewer 3: same -- should we reference a constant here in addition to `33`?

This is most useful for schemas with a larger per-item size and smaller potential item count.

### Itemized Data (`PayloadLocation:Itemized`)

> Data is stored in a single page (max size: `10_240` bytes) containing multiple items (max item size of `1_024` bytes) of the associated schema.

Reviewer 3: constants?

> Data is stored in a single page (max size of `10_240` bytes defined by `constants::MaxItemizedPageSizeBytes`) containing multiple items (max item size of `1_024` bytes defined by `constants::MaxItemizedBlobSizeBytes`) of the associated schema.

Author: ```suggestion
Data is stored in a single page with a max size of `10_240` bytes (defined by `constants::MaxItemizedPageSizeBytes`).
The page contains multiple items of the associated schema.
The maximum size of each items is `1_024` bytes (defined by `constants::MaxItemizedBlobSizeBytes`) .
```
